## The virtual DOM

Hey, we will cover the basic interview questions on ReactJS. Let's start with the first one.

### What is the difference between the real DOM and the virtual DOM?

The virtual DOM can't directly update HTML, while the 'Real' DOM directly updates and manipulates HTML.

The virtual dom can't directly update the html since it is a copy of the real dom and it is used to increase the performance of the web application.

The real dom does, since it is an object representation of the html elements and it is used to update the html elements directly.

and so if you click a button to change something on a real dom, it will update and refreshes the whole page every time you click the button, but with the virtual dom, it will only update the specific element that you want to change since it accesses the real dom and compares the changes and updates the specific element that you want to change. It can be manipulated and updated without refreshing the page at all.

`Virtual dom` is more of a pattern than a specific technology, while the `Real dom` is an object representation of the html elements + an interface for manipulating that object.

The `Virtual dom` is synced with the real DOM with `react-dom` and `react-reconciler` libraries, while the `Real dom` is directly updated and manipulated.

## THe Key difference.

You can talk of all the examples you can, but the key difference is `diffing`.

Maybe you can get another question, like:

### Is the `virtual DOM` the same as the `Shadow DOM`?

well, the very fast answer is `No`. The `Shadow DOM` is a subset of the `Virtual DOM`. The `Shadow DOM` is a way to encapsulate the style and structure of a web component, while the `Virtual DOM` is a pattern to increase the performance of the web application.

The shadow dom is a browser technology designed primarily for scoping variables and CSS in web components. The virtual dom is a concept implemented by libraries in JavaScript on top of the real dom. And so, the shadow dom is not a pattern but a technology, while the virtual dom is a pattern.

an example of the shadow dom is the `Web Components` API, while the virtual dom is implemented by libraries like `React` and `Vue`.

## React

limitations
Well, first some people confuse react to be a framework, it is not. It is a `library`. React is a library for building user interfaces, while a framework is a collection of libraries and tools that work together to provide a solution to a specific problem.

[] - It is large
[] - It is owned by facebook - made sure it is mantained.
[] - Documentation - up to date.

## JSX - The bread and butter of React

It is a short for `JavaScript XML`. Writing JavaScript with an `HTML-like` template syntax (not HTML, not a String!)
It produces React `elements` (objects) that are used to render the UI.

```jsx
const element = <h1>Hello, world!</h1>;
```

JSX is a syntax extension for JavaScript, it is a combination of JavaScript and XML. It is used to write React components.

You may come around a question like:

### what is the difference between an element and a component?

An `element` is a plain object that represents a DOM element (created by a `jsx`), while a `component` is a function or a class that returns a React element.

Given that you have an html file, css and a js file. We can demo it this way.

index.html

```html
<html>
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="root"></div>
        <script src="index.js"></script>
    </body>
</html>
```
styles.css

```css
body {
    font-family: Arial, sans-serif;
    background-color: #f0f0f0;
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
}
/* other stylings you'd like */
```

index.js

```jsx
import React from 'react'; 
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';

const domElement = <h1>Hello, world!</h1>;

ReactDOM.render(domElement, document.getElementById('root'));
```

In the above we've rendered an element to the dom. The `domElement` is a plain object that represents a DOM element, while the `ReactDOM.render` is a function that renders the element to the dom.

With the `component`,

we can have our `.js` file look like this:

```javascript
//imports here

const Component = () => <div>Hello there! Leave a star if you love the content and consider contributing your ideas.</div>

const domElement = document.getElementById('root')

React.DOM.render(<Component />, domElement)

```

### Can you write React without JSX?
Guess what? A lot of you may think you can't but actually you can. You can adjust our code above to look this way:

```javascript
// ..... imports

const component = () => React.createElement('div', null, 'Hello react!')

// ...the rest of the code

```

And the above works pretty well too.

Yes, it is totally okay you can write react without `jsx` completely, but I'll leave you with a question, `why would you?` :> 