## Props

#### 1. How do you pass a value from parent to child? What about from child to parent?

You can pass a value from parent to child by using `props`. You can pass a value from child to parent by using a `callback function`(a function prop).

#### 2. What is a `prop-drilling`?

`Prop-drilling` is the process of passing props from a parent component to a deeply nested child component through intermediate components.

#### 3. Can you modify props?

No, you cannot modify props. They are `read-only`. If you need to modify a prop, you should use `state` instead.

# State and Lifecycle

#### 1. What is the difference between `props` and `state`?

`props` are immutable and are used to pass data from parent to child components, while `state` is mutable and is used to manage the component's internal state(it is managed withnin a component).

#### 2. What is the difference between `state` in a `class component` and `state` in a `functional component`?

State in a class component is an `object` that is used to store and manage the component's internal state, it uses a function called `this.state` keyword. State in a functional component is managed using the `useState` hook. It is recalled multiple times.

**Note:** State component in class component persists(like an object) until the component is unmounted, while state in a functional component is reset every time the component is re-rendered.

```javascript
class App extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      count: 0,
    };
  }
}
```

```javascript
import React, { useState } from "react";

const App = () => {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
};
```

#### 3. What is the component lifecycle?

The component lifecycle is a series of methods that are invoked in different stages of a component's existence. The lifecycle methods are:

- **Mounting**: The component is being created and inserted into the DOM.
  - `render`, `componentDidMount()`: Invoked after the component is mounted.
- **Updating**: The component is being re-rendered as a result of changes to its props or state.
  - `render`,`componentDidUpdate()`
- **Unmounting**: The component is being removed from the DOM.
  - `componentWillUnmount()`

#### 4. How do you update the lifecycle methods in a functional component?

You can use the `useEffect` hook to update the lifecycle methods in a functional component. The `useEffect` hook is used to perform side effects in a functional component.

```javascript
import React, { useEffect } from "react";

const App = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    // componentDidMount
    return () => {
      // componentWillUnmount
    };
  }, []);
};
```

# Effects

#### 1. What parameters does the useEffect hook take in?

The `useEffect` hook takes in two parameters: a `callback function`(an effect function, what is going to be run) and an `array of dependencies`(this will determine when that `effect` function will be run).

#### 2. When does the useEffect function run?

The `useEffect` function runs after the component has rendered for the first time and after every update.

- [] -> It runs on `mount` and `update`.
- [x] -> It runs only on `mount`, only if the variable in the array changes, or only if the component is unmounted.
- No array -> Runs on `mount` and `update`(on every state change).

- [x] **Note:** If you want to run the `useEffect` function only once, you can pass an empty array as the second parameter.

```javascript
import React, { useEffect } from "react";

const App = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    // This will run after the component has rendered for the first time
  }, []);
};
```

#### 3. How do you clean up effects in a functional component?

You can clean up effects in a functional component by returning a function from the `useEffect` hook. This function will be called when the component is unmounted.

```javascript
import React, { useEffect } from "react";

const App = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    // This will run after the component has rendered for the first time
    return () => {
      // This will run when the component is unmounted
    };
  }, []);
};
```

#### 4. What is the useEffect function's return value?

The `useEffect` function's return value is a `cleanup function`. This function is used to clean up any side effects created by the `useEffect` function.
We've demonstrated this in the previous question.