# Refs & Context in React

Here we are again, your guide to the React world. This time we will talk about the `refs` in React.

`Refs` are a way to access the DOM nodes or React elements created in the render method. They are used to interact with the DOM nodes directly.

## Creating Refs

There are two ways to create refs in React:

1. Using the `React.createRef()` method.
2. Using the callback function.

### Using `React.createRef()`

The `React.createRef()` method creates a ref that can be attached to a React element. Refs are commonly assigned to an instance property when a component is constructed so they can be referenced throughout the component.

```jsx
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.myRef = React.createRef();
  }

  render() {
    return <div ref={this.myRef} />;
  }
}
```

### Using the Callback Function

The callback function is another way to create `refs` in React.

```jsx
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.myRef = null;
  }

  render() {
    return <div ref={(el) => (this.myRef = el)} />;
  }
}
```

## 1. What is the difference between `refs` and `state`?

`Refs` and `state` are both used to store information in React, but they serve different purposes. `State` is used to store data that can change over time, while `refs` are used to access the DOM nodes or React elements created in the render method.

`state` variable can trigger a re-render when it changes, while `refs` do not trigger a re-render when they are updated.

## 2. When is the best time to use `refs`?

`Refs` should be used sparingly in React, as they can make the code harder to understand and maintain. They are best used when you need to access the DOM nodes or React elements directly, such as:

- when you need to focus an input field or measure the size of an element.
- when you need to integrate with third-party libraries that require direct access to the DOM.
- when you need to trigger animations or other imperative actions.
- when you need to access a child component's methods or properties.

## 3. Can `refs` be used in functional components?

Yes, `refs` can be used in functional components using the `useRef` hook.

```jsx
import React, { useRef } from "react";

function MyComponent() {
  const myRef = useRef();

  return <div ref={myRef} />;
}
```

## 4. what is the proper way to update a ref in a functional component?

To update a ref in a functional component, you can use the `useRef` hook and the `current` property of the ref, but together with the `useEffect` hook.

```jsx
import React, { useRef, useEffect } from "react";

function MyComponent() {
  const myRef = useRef();

  // Update the ref
  useEffect(() => {
    myRef.current = document.getElementById("my-element");
  }, []);

  return <div />;
}
```

# Context in React

`Context` provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level. It is designed to share data that can be considered "global" for a tree of React components.

## 1. What is the difference between the Context API and props drilling?

Prop drilling is for explicitly stating props/values that a given child component can get. It can be cumbersome and lead to unnecessary re-renders.

The Context API implicitly passes values to child components without the need to pass props through every level of the component tree. It works these way:
It is defined at the `top level component` and can be accessed by any child component that needs it.

## 2. When shouldn't we use the context API?

It depends, but you shouldn't `overuse` cause it could lead to unneccessary re-renders.

# Random QUestions.

1. What is a `fragment`?

It is just a container to hold on two different elements. In react, you only need to return only one element, and so that's why it was introduced.

It's an empty element that doesnt return anything in the dom but it makes sure you're returning one individual element.

2. When should you use a class-based component versus a function component?

Functional component is the future of react, you should almost never use class-based component in react.

3. What is a `higher order component`?

A `higher order component` is a function that takes a component and returns a new component. It is used to share common functionality between components without repeating code(`reusability` is a thing here).

4. What is a `portal` in React?

A `portal` is a way to **render** a child component outside of its parent component in the DOM hierarchy. It allows you to render a component at the top level of the DOM, even if it is a child of another component.

5. What are `controlled` and `uncontrolled` components?

`Uncontrolled` components are input values where the `user` controls and `react` doesnt have control over it.
`controlled` components are input values where the `react` controls the value of the input.
